Computer Function
==

Computer function refers to the fundamental operations that a computer performs to execute instructions and process data.

# Instruction Cycle
The processing required for a single instruction is called an instruction cycle.
So the computer executes, then fetches an instruction in a looping manner until the end of the program.

# Interrupt
Virtuall all computers provide a mechanism by which other modules (I/O, memory), may interrupt.
Classes:
1. Program: generated by some condition that occurs as a result of an instruction execution, such as arithmetic overflow, fivsion by zero, or reference outside a user's allowed memory space.
2. Timer: generated by a timer within the processor.
This allows the operating system to perform certain functions on a regular basis.
3. I/0: generated by an I/O controller ,to signal normal completion of an operation, request service, or to signal a variety of error conditions.
4. Hardware failure: can be generated by a failure such as power failure or memory parity error.

# Computer Systems Interconnection
Ways in which the CPU, memory, and I/O devices are connected.

1. Single (shared communication)
2. Multiple
3. Point-to-point

## point-to-point vs bus
Point to Point is direct connection between two componenets, offering high speed and low latency, ideal for high performance I/O.
Bus interconnection: A shared communication pathway that multiple components use to transfer data, suitable for GPIO operations.

The interconnection structure must support
1. memory to process
2. processor to memory
3. io to processor
4. processor to io
5. processor to and from memory

## Quick Path Interconnect (QPI)
Multiple direct connections
- Direct pairwise connections to other components eliminating the need for arbitration found in shared transmission systems.
Layered protocol arch.
- These processor level interconnects use a layered protocol atch rathe than the simple use of control signals found in shared bus arrangements.
Packetised data transfer
- Data are sent as a sequence of packets each of which includes control headers and error control codes.

# Key Takeaways
* Interrupts allow us to execute instructions sequentially 
* 
